# For everyone
This game isn't finished. This README file describes how the game works at the
time of its writing. It will not be updated every time the game is.

# For players
## Controls
The snake can be controlled using your arrow keys. The space bar pauses or
unpauses the game. The game will start immediately when you run the program.
If you die, restart the program to try again.

## Pellets
The magenta cells you see are pellets. Your goal is to pick these up for points
(points are tracked, but currently not displayed). Sometimes, a pellet will be
light green instead of magenta; this is called a power pellet, and picking it up
will cause Something to happen in addition to giving you a point.

## Power pellet effects
### Invincibility
This causes the snake to become invincible for a short while. In this state, the
snake can pass through any obstacle that would normally kill it. You can tell
that you're invincible because the snake's head will be yellow instead of blue.
Beware - there is no warning when this is about to end.

### Bombs
Five "bombs" are placed on the field. These are small diamond-shaped blocks.

### Bouncer
The power pellet will start bouncing rather than disappearing (a new pellet
still appears). The bouncer destroys any cell it hits. After a while, the
bouncer will explode, taking out any cells in its blast radius. This is not
dangerous to the snake.

### Antimatter bomb
This behaves exactly like real antimatter doesn't. It appears as a single green
cell at first, then it goes orange and then red, before exploding. The explosion
is two 3 wide bands, one horizontal and one vertical, both centered on the
original cell, that destroy everything they hit.

### Giga snake
A giant snake appears from one of the sides. It will cross the entire screen.
After a while the tail end of the body will follow suit, and the giga snake
leaves the field. The giga snake may leave some droppings behind.

### Evil snake
A grey snake will appear on the field and randomly move around. If it eats a
pellet, it will turn dark red and start dropping bombs behind it.

### Tetrominoes
Tetrominoes are geometric shapes consisting of 4 connected squares. In this game
five tetrominoes will fall from the top of the play field, and stop when they
hit a solid cell or the bottom of the play field.

### Turret
A turret will appear somewhere on the field and start firing in a random
direction. The bullets consist of a single cell moving in the same direction
until they hit something, then disappearing. The turret is a diamond shaped
object with an orange cell in the middle; if the orange cell is destroyed, the
turret stops firing.

### Wormhole
One cell on the board will turn orange, and another will turn light blue.
Entering one will cause the snake to exit through the other. Some other actors
are also capable of passing through a wormhole. If either end of the wormhole is
destroyed, both ends will explode.

### Invader
An invader from space will fly across the top of the play field, firing shots at
regular intervals. If these bullets hit something, they will explode and remain
where they hit; however they will pass through the bottom of the play field
harmlessly if they can get there.

# For developers
This section is currently unwritten. Many details are not finalised.